“I got my grandma’s Mustang,” is how the electronic communication began from Mason Straub to Dan Bailey. Dan was a little busy that day, but he told Mason he would get by tomorrow and look the car over. “I messaged him back and asked if the Mustang was a coupe or a fastback. He said it was a fastback,” Dan explained. Apparently, Mason did not realize the significance of the car, and neither did his grandma, Ann Wensel. “We just knew we needed to move it out of the shed ’cause that was falling in and he was interested in it, been looking at it. I told him if he wanted to work on it he could have it, better than just letting it sit,” Ann told us.Dan, true to his word, drove over to Fairfax, Missouri, the next day, a Sunday. Mason led him to a Tahoe Turquoise 1966 Mustang fastback sitting in his backyard. The body definitely needed rear quarter-panels, and the floorpans were probably rusted out as well. But the body had GT side stripes and foglights in the grille. Could this car be a factory GT? Underhood Dan spotted a Holley four-barrel carburetor on an aluminum Cobra intake manifold. So far, the car could just be a modified. Then, Dan checked out the VIN and spotted the infamous “K” in the fifth digit, signifying, of course, a factory 289 high-performance small-block V-8. Dan said, “Oh my god, do you know what you have here? This isn’t just a plain old Mustang.”Dan wanted to impress upon the youngster the significance of this Mustang, lest Mason sell the car for a few hundred bucks not knowing what he had. Dan is a super Mustang enthusiast. Readers might recall a Rare Finds column on the 1969 Mach 1 he pulled out of a barn last year. Dan lives in Rock Port, Missouri, a little spot in the road off I-29, an hour and a half north of Kansas City. There, Dan has converted an old service station into servicing his obsession for vintage American iron. Every fourth Friday of the month he hosts a cruise night there and people drive to the station from miles around. One of them was 15-year-old Mason and his father. So, when Mason got the Mustang, he gave his friend Dan a call.We asked Ann how she came to own this car. She remembered the exact date of the purchase: July 23, 1969. Ann had just graduated from high school and taken a job in Saint Jo. But, she had been looking at the Mustang at H&H Wright Motors Corporation in Tarkio, Missouri. On each trip home on weekends, she would drive by the car lot, look at the Mustang, and say to herself, “That’s my car! That’s my car!” Then one day she came home for a visit and the Mustang was gone. She was pretty upset, but got the surprise of her life when her mom and dad came home from the grocery store driving the Mustang.At the time, Ann did not know the car was a Hi-Po. She said, “I just drove it. I didn’t know anything about that.” She does recall the car had, according to her father, “270 air; that’s two windows down at 70 mph.” The car cost $1,450 and Ann still has the original sales slip. After she got married and left home, she handed it down to her siblings but the title remained in her name. Two brothers and one sister all drove the Mustang, racking up 143,000 miles when her dad parked the car. “I don’t know what was wrong with it. Dad just parked it in the shed and told me he couldn’t afford to fix it.” Apparently, Ann has handed down the car again, this time to her grandson. Mason looks upon the car as a long-term project. One of these days he may drive the Hi-Po to one of Dan’s cruises.

Hidden behind a horse barn in rural Pennsylvania, this 1969 Mustang SportsRoof still wore its original Groovy Green paint, enhanced by artistic patches of surface rust. An excavated shale ledge upon which the adjacent barn was built is probably what saved the body from ground moisture and severe rust. This American classic had been parked outside since about 1995 but had not run since 1980, when Randy Kuhn went into the military and parked the car in a garage. The stock 250ci six-cylinder engine did not help the car’s chances of survival—being a “Limited Edition 600” did.Don Hughmanick says, “Randy Kuhn was the second owner and bought it from Rothrock Motors in Allentown, Pennsylvania, in 1979. He concluded after all these years that his plan to restore the car was more of a dream than a reality. He just wanted to sell it as a project car, for parts, or just take it to the scrap yard.”In July 2015, Don got an email from Judy Kuhn, the wife of the car’s owner, stating that her husband was ready to sell his old Mustang. Judy’s mission was to find out the car’s value and find a buyer. In her research she stumbled upon Don’s website devoted to the Limited Edition 600 Mustang, limited600mustang.net.Oddly enough, neither Judy nor her husband knew the car was a Mustang special edition. Her search included the hoodscoop, weird green paint, the DSO number of 162787, and other oddities that linked her keystrokes to Don’s Limited Edition 600 website. Hughmanick is a longtime owner of a 1969 Flower Power Red Limited Edition 600 SportsRoof that Mustang Monthly ran a feature on in 2010. At that time, Don explained that 600 was the number of Mustangs the Philadelphia sales district would sell as part of their national “Mustang Stampede” in the spring of 1969.Standard features were either the Flower Power Red (WT5185) or Groovy Green paint (MX8241928), a unique side stripe, full wheel covers, whitewall tires, a hoodscoop, a chrome remote driver-side mirror, an AM radio, and special “600” fender emblems. The 200-1V was standard, with the 250-1V and 302-2V optional. Incredibly, Randy Kuhn’s Limited Edition 600 was in Lehighton, an hour and a half north of Don’s home in Sinking Spring, Pennsylvania. Don said he might be a buyer and asked Judy if he could look at the car. Of course, he is also the leading expert in the world on this special edition, so if he didn’t buy, he might be able to assist in a finding the right buyer.Judy agreed, but didn’t get back to him until two weeks before Thanksgiving 2015. By then, Don had a Marti Report so he already knew the car’s heritage before his trip. He was intrigued that the car sold new from T.F. & Leh, Incorporated, a very small dealership in Nazareth, Pennsylvania. He wondered how many people realized there were dealerships in those days that held just a few cars in their showrooms.Don found what he called “typical rust” in one quarter-panel, while the other was OK, but dented. The framerails were pretty good, and only the driver-side front floor pan needed to be replaced. One front fender and the passenger door had been replaced early on, as was evident by the side stripe and a repaint to those panels. Don found the original body buck tag with the paint code mix number for the special-order Groovy Green. Overall, the car was complete with the original engine and transmission, scooped hood, and interior intact, though the stock driver-side mirror was long gone. Don felt the car had not been “bastardized” and was well worth saving. He had always thought it would be nice to have a Groovy Green 600 to complement his Flower Power Red 600, both SportsRoofs. The run of 503 cars consisted of SportsRoofs and hardtops. They didn’t end up making 600, apparently.Don wasn’t overly anxious to buy, so he did not follow up from the earlier emails. The seller was still ready to sell, but Judy had waited four months to make that follow-up call. “First of all, they asked me what the car was worth. I said it was worth anywhere from 15 to 22 plus. They wanted to know how much I would pay.”Don’s 15-22 refers to $15,000 to $22,000-plus for a restored six-cylinder 600. Buyer and seller negotiated what Don feels was a very reasonable price for the Mustang in its current condition, but since this 1969 SportsRoof was part of Randy’s teenage years, he found it a little difficult to let go. As part of the sales agreement, Randy wanted to see the car when Don finished the restoration. “Heck, I’ll even let you drive it,” Don said. With that, the deal was sealed.

The words “an old blue Mustang with white stripes” got Rich Barnes excited. “Typically a regular coupe, fastback, or convertible doesn’t come with those kinds of stripes,” Barnes said. How right he was. Peeling back a car cover revealed what appeared to be a real Shelby. Barnes popped open the hood and with wild-eyed fascination stared at a 428 Police Interceptor big-block, dual four-barrel carburetors, and the correct oval air cleaner that screams Shelby.Underhood, the Shelby tag was visible, too. Inside, Barnes could see the instrument cluster on the passenger seat. Maybe somebody was trying to fix an electrical problem under the dash? A four-speed shifter poked out of the transmission tunnel. Barnes felt a strong urge to thank the man who had led him here. He had “bumped into a guy” in Central City, Colorado, a few days earlier.“My wife and I were visiting the Teller House. We were in the bar of this old cowboy-mining town. I don’t know if you’ve ever heard the story about the ‘face on the bar room floor?’ We were looking at the famous painting on the bar room floor and just started talking to people. They were really friendly.”This famous painting dates back to the early 1900s. The area was once a hotbed for mining, which petered out. In fact, when Barnes was a kid he would go down there with his family and pan for gold. Limited stakes gambling, legalized in 1991, revived the region’s economy, located just 35 miles west of Denver.A man named Mickey noticed Barnes was wearing a Ford jacket. They started talking about Mustangs. (Barnes owns The Mustang Ranch in Golden, Colorado. They specialize in ’64½-’73 Mustangs and particularly Shelbys.) Mickey said, “I had an old friend who had a ranch on the outskirts of Golden, Colorado. Have you ever heard of the OK Corral?”Barnes was not familiar with the place. So, Mickey began telling how his friend, Rodger Hall, had just died and the sons and daughter were liquidating the property. The OK Corral was going to be demolished. They had some old cars and old tractors and things of that nature they were going to sell. Barnes has a gift for gab and likes people. Mickey told him his friend Rodger Hall liked to watch old western movies and TV shows from the ’50s and ’60s, such as Gunsmoke and The Rifleman. Maybe that’s why this old cowboy drove a Shelby. I figure he must have been a fan of Carroll Shelby, a Texan, as well, and the cars he built.Anyway, the family was liquidating the OK Corral. Among the machinery was this old Mustang, which, like everything else, was to be sold. Barnes wasted no time hustling down to the OK Corral. He wanted to be there first. But, exactly where was the place? “He drew me a little map on a piece of paper because the phone had been disconnected [at the OK Corral]. Sure enough I went over there and sitting back by one of the barns was a car under a cover. You could see it from the road.” Was this covered car the Shelby? Barnes says he could tell by the shape that the car under the cover was a Shelby.Barnes visited with the son and daughter of the deceased owner. They were fine to let him go check out the ’67 Mustang on his own. Barnes has owned a slew of Mustangs and Shelbys. He spent maybe an hour just messing around with the car, checking it out. Barnes concluded he had run across a superclean ’67 Shelby G.T. 500 fastback with little rust, and very little body damage.The body had been repainted Midnight Blue, but the original color appeared to be Lime Gold. The stripes were white. The fiberglass hood was there with dual inlet scoops. The car appeared complete, just sitting there in the weeds, curiously, with a car cover. By the condition, Barnes concluded somebody had taken care of this car. The owners explained they didn’t have time to advertise or auction the Mustang. So, after talking for a while Barnes threw an offer at them.“They were kind of shocked and surprised that the car was possibly worth that much. I could have probably gotten it for a little less money, but I didn’t want to insult anybody or come across like I’m trying to rip them off or hurt their feelings.” They accepted. Barnes was elated. He towed the car back to Mustang Ranch. “I put a battery in it, poured some fuel down the carburetor, and I took a jumper wire and ran it to the positive side of the battery. And then just jumped the starter solenoid and I got the thing to fire right up.” Barnes has another Shelby Mustang for his Mustang Ranch. He plans to restore the Shelby.

Bob Simons was already thinking to himself, “This one’s not for me. I’m out. It’s probably going to need way too much work.”Mustangs are a hobby to Simons and he didn’t want to get himself into a 10-year project, saying, “I could see the rear end laying on the ground. I work full time and have another part-time job, so I didn’t want to invest the time in the car.” But then, the luminescence of a C-stripe hit his eyes as he peered inside the garage in the small town of Wind Gap, Pennsylvania, about 15 miles from his home in Bethlehem.The seller was giving him more information on the car and Simons heard model year 1968, body style convertible, automatic C4 transmission, owned since 1971, purchased from original buyer, sold in area brand new, and so on. Simons zoned out a bit as he weaved his way through mounds of stuff toward the 1968 to get a closer look. He wanted to know if this 1968 could possibly be a GT. Of course, C-stripes did not mean GT, but they were a hint. But, there was no room to open the doors—the 1968 had been parked in this spot since 1987. Apparently, a fender-bender (rear quarter) put the Mustang out of circulation and the owner’s husband began tearing the 1968 apart in pursuit of a restoration in the late ’80s.For years, the top had been down, revealing no seats or door panels, and for maybe just as long, the hood had been open, revealing a 302. Simons leaned down and spied a “J” code in the fifth digit of the VIN stamped on the fender apron under the hood. Wow, this engine was the 302-4V, a factory GT small-block V-8. But, was this 1968 a factory GT? Then, Simons hit the dirt. He found the body buck tag on the radiator support and made out the capital letters “GT.” The lady never mentioned her car was GT.Simons got the lead on this 1968 convertible from his part-time job, where he said, “I told everybody I was searching for another Mustang” and a woman at work mentioned her sister-in-law’s Mustang. Simon said, “I didn’t figure it would be for sale, but she said she could find out. I didn’t even know the model year or body style,” but when he called the owner he was surprised to hear it was a 1968 convertible. “Of the three body styles I like the convertible the most. The three Mustangs I have now are convertibles. I’m a convertible guy. That’s the thing. I love them.”The 1968 needed both rear quarters, but the floorpans and trunk were solid and the cowl did not leak. Simons realized he had a project on his hands, but the presence of the GT motivated him to make a deal. The car still had its original Royal Maroon paint with a gold C-stripe, but the paint was basically all gone.Options include the 302-4V, C4 automatic, 3.25:1 Traction-Lok rear axle, console, Convenience Group, 6,000-rpm tachometer, 8 Track tape player, turn signal hood, Deluxe parchment interior, power disc brakes, power steering, power top, and power top—and the GT Equipment Group. In the process of disassembling the car, somebody cut the rear leaf springs, which severely restricted movement so Simons installed leaf springs to roll the car out of the garage.The 1968 was in pieces and definitely needed a lot of work, but the asking price was right at $1,200, and Simons tells us he’s in the process of redoing the car as we speak.

Joe Boda of Maryland knew very little about Cobra Jet Mustangs when he arrived at his cousin's estate in Glendora, California, in August 2008. Soon the vultures were swarming. One opportunist offered six grand for a white '68 Mustang, its wheels sunk into the dirt in the backyard of James Heidenreich, dead at the age of 59. Joe's cousin Jim was a car enthusiast who collected but seldom sold. Single with no kids, he left behind 26 cars. Some were collectible; one was very significant.There are Cobra Jets and then there are Super Cobra Jets. Supreme among CJs, however, are the factory-built drag racing Cobra Jets. In late 1968, Ford built 50, from VIN 135007 through 135056. Due to the common first three digits, enthusiasts refer to these fastbacks as the 135 series.  Joe proved a very careful seller. Over the next two years, he and his wife made six trips to the West Coast handling Jim's estate. The \"Cobra Jet\" lettering on the white Mustang intrigued him enough to investigate further. Had he sold the car as simply a Cobra Jet he would have made a huge mistake. Original factory drag cars are easily worth six figures, more or less, according to their racing provenance.Joe \"had no idea\" if this car was real or had been modified. The 428 CJ engine was gone, and to make research more difficult, the engine code on the chassis VIN was an \"S,\" decoding as a 390. (Ford built these early Cobra Jets using the big-block 390 chassis, but the trim tags were stamped with \"R.\" Later, they also stamped the chassis with an \"R\" for the new 428 CJ. How could Joe, a novice, know this?)Joe read an article I wrote for Mustang Monthly about Ben Cole's '68 Cobra Jet race car and called Ben for help. Ben referred him to Randy Gillis, a high-performance Mustang expert who lived in the area.Randy gave Joe the facts about this 135-series Cobra Jet race car. He even detected lift bars welded to the frame by Bill Stroppe's shop in Southern California, a sticker on the windshield dated 1969 for the Clark County Racing Association, original Keystone custom mags, and much more. Incredibly, the odometer showed fewer than 200 miles. The interior still smelled new with a pristine dash and nice original carpet. The radiator and engine were missing, but the transmission with Hurst vertical-gate shifter remained intact. Randy described the Belanger headers as \"very odd,\" as most 135-series CJs have either Jardine or Doug's headers. Other odds and ends included drum brakes, \"which it is supposed to have,\" said Randy, and part of an Ansen scattershield. The trunk was littered with parts.After the phone call to Ben Cole, the car's discovery began to reverberate in the hobby. Ben already had a 135-series CJ race car, but his friend David Garton wanted one. David already owned one of the 50 '08 Cobra Jets, and acquiring one of the 50 original '68 Cobra Jets Ford built for Super Stock drag racing would \"top off\" his Ford muscle collection.David was eager to purchase the car, but Joe was biding his time. \"He was searching for history and trying to put a drag racer's name on the car,\" David says. \"Had to let him be until he was satisfied. Checked with him every month.\"Finally, in October 2010, David purchased the 135-series Cobra Jet. He washed the body and got out a light to peer through the paint into the car's past. His wife could detect \"Phil Glass\" between the door handle and the side mirror. On the Internet she found a drag racer's post from Bob Belanger and Jerry Belanger, two brothers that owned Belanger Headers. David also found \"SS/E\" behind the louvers on the sides of the roof.\"I think Phil Glass raced the car for Russ Davis Ford, and when they retired the car they polished the numbers off the top of the fenders, sprayed color over Phil's name, and then sold the car.\"The car was last registered in 1974, according to the license plates. David found a decal on the car for the March 1969 Fuel Gas Championship at Famoso Raceway in Bakersfield, California. The oil pan still has a participant Valvoline racing sticker for the 1969 Springnationals. Although the original motor did not come with the car, David said he did get \"a bunch of pieces--intake, carburetor, original headers, one cylinder head, original transmission with VIN--90 percent of everything.\"His car is one of the six lightweight Cobra Jet racers sent to Russ Davis Ford. Only two of those six were sound-deadener-delete with no undercoating, this CJ and the Gas Ronda racer. Purists should not worry. David has no plans to restore the car, just clean and detail to retain the original patina. A period-correct 428 Cobra Jet Super Stock motor will bring the car back to life.If anyone has information about of this car or old pictures of it, please write me at jerry@jerryheasley.com. We will pass the information along to David. He plans to take the car on tour to various shows and drag racing reunions. Eventually, he'll put together a complete dossier on this car. MCR
